The Akbarnama is a collection of historical stories about the third mughal emperor named Akbar.
These stories took even years to compile and were illustrated by at least 49 different artists.
One of the stories depicted in this book was the closest thing to a high speed car chase in this age.
Once upon a time, there was a ruler named H.M.
This ruler believed he was the best for his kingdom; but two of his trusted advisors did not agree.
The generous ruler had given these two trusted leaders land to rule over in his stead.
But these leaders took advantage of the great things given to them by the ruler and used their resources to rebel against his authority.
When H.M. heard to the treachery of his leaders he set off at once with his army to squash the uprising they we’re attempting to begin.
The leader was causing trouble on the river, attempting to steal from those doing business there for his own personal gain.
When H.M. first approached he ran from the river, abandoning his endeavour to try and save himself from impending doom.
The ruler tried to catch up to him but the rebels had run away too quickly; H.M. was determined and continued forward.
The townspeople suggested he take the same path as the leader had run off on; but the ruler ignored their suggestions and took as shorted path even though it was supposed to be without water and would mean they would die chasing the leader.
But due to recent rain, ponds appeared along their route to sustain them.
The only thing standing in-between the ruler and his target now was the river which was flowing swiftly due to the recent rain.
But the ruler and some of his men mounted elephants and traversed it anyways.
The traitors were informed of the ruler’s accomplishment and his fast approach, but ignored the warning and instead kept enjoying their celebrations, drinking all through the night.
In the morning H.M. and his army approached, catching them off guard.
Victory came to the ruler, and the two traitors were executed by H.M. himself or his men.